MM-16268 Community plugin process. (#314)
mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation: site/content/extend/plugins/community_process.md

## Checklist

### Deploying to ci-extensions
- [Basic Code Review](#basic-code-review) passed
- [CI system setup](#ci-system-setup) to build master
- Has a [compatible licence](#compatible-licence).

### Deploying to ci-extensions-release
- Complete code review by two core committers. One focused on security.
- [QA pass](#qa-pass)
- [PM/UX review](#pm-ux-review)
- Release created and [CI system setup](#ci-system-setup) to build releases

### Deploying to community.mattermost.com
- QA pass on ci-extensions-release of the release to deploy.

## Step Definitions

### Basic Code Review

Basic code review of an experimental plugin involves a quick review by a [core committer](/contribute/getting-started/core-committers/) to verify that the plugin does what it says it does and to provide any guidance and feedback. To make it easier to provide feedback, a PR can be made that contains all the code of the plugin that isn't the boilerplate from mattermost-plugin-starter-template.

### CI System Setup

> Setting up the CI system for your plugin will allow continuous testing of your master branch and releases on our testing servers. Master branch testing is done on https://ci-extensions.azure.k8s.mattermost.com/ and release testing is done on https://ci-extensions-release.azure.k8s.mattermost.com/

Reviewer: Is setting up this CI possible for non mattermost plugins?

Author: Yes. The next paragraph explains that you will need to setup your own CI. Then the ci-extentions servers can pull from there. 

I would love suggestions on how to make this easy for people. I was thinking about making a circleci orb, but it seems quite difficult to get the latest artifact out of circleci.

In order to set this up, we will need a URL where we can on a nightly basis, pull the latest master build. Once that exists you can make a request in the [Toolkit](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/developer-toolkit) channel.

### Compatible Licence

Recommended Licences:

- Apache Licence 2.0
- MIT
- BSD 2-clause
- BSD 3-clause

[More info](https://www.apache.org/legal/resolved.html#category-a)

### Complete code review

A more through code review is performed before allowing a plugin on ci-extensions-release. This review works the same as the basic code review, but the developers performing the review will be more through. If the developer that performed the first review is available, they should be one of the reviewers. One of the reviewers should focus their review on the any security implications of the plugin.

> ### QA pass

Author: @DHaussermann Hoping you can help flesh out what QA would want to see here.

Reviewer 2: - Ensure all setup documentation needed is clear and can be successfully followed 
- Functional testing has been done to ensure the integration works as expected
- For Plugins owned by Mattermost - Release testing is added to cover the main functionality of the plugin

QA pass involves getting a memeber of our QA team to take a look and verify the functionality advertised by your plugin.

> ### PM/UX Review

Author: @aaronrothschild Hoping you can flesh out what PM wants to see here.

---
title: Plugins on Community Server
date: 2018-10-01T00:00:00-05:00
subsection: Plugins (Beta)
weight: 50
---

> Getting your plugin onto community.mattermost.com is a valuable source of feedback. However we must ensure that our community server remains stable for everyone. This document outlines the process of getting your plugin onto the community server. In the future, some of these steps will be required to get your plugin into the integrations marketplace (TBD). When you are ready to have your plugin start this process, ask in the ~Toolkit channel on the community server.

Reviewer 3: 1 - What's a "community server"?
2 - Who owns the process when someone asks in the ~Toolkit channel?
3 - Who owns bug fixes / maintenance when something breaks?
4 - Is this intended for everyone, including contributor-created plugins?

In order to set this up, we will need a URL where we can on a nightly basis, pull the latest master build. Once that exists you can make a request in the [Toolkit](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/developer-toolkit) channel.

### Compatible Licence

Recommended Licences:

- Apache Licence 2.0
- MIT
- BSD 2-clause
- BSD 3-clause

[More info](https://www.apache.org/legal/resolved.html#category-a)

### Complete code review

A more through code review is performed before allowing a plugin on ci-extensions-release. This review works the same as the basic code review, but the developers performing the review will be more through. If the developer that performed the first review is available, they should be one of the reviewers. One of the reviewers should focus their review on the any security implications of the plugin.

### QA pass

QA pass involves getting a memeber of our QA team to take a look and verify the functionality advertised by your plugin.

> 

Reviewer 2: - Ensure all setup documentation needed is clear and can be successfully followed 
- Functional testing has been done to ensure the integration works as expected
- For Plugins owned by Mattermost - Release testing is added to cover the main functionality of the plugin

---
title: Plugins on Community Server
date: 2018-10-01T00:00:00-05:00
subsection: Plugins (Beta)
weight: 50
---

> Getting your plugin onto our community server https://community.mattermost.com is a valuable source of feedback. Weather you are a Core Commiter or anyone from the community, we want you to get feedback to improve your plugin. However we must ensure that our community server remains stable for everyone. This document outlines the process of getting your plugin onto the community server. In the future, some of these steps will be required to get your plugin into the integrations marketplace (TBD). When you are ready to have your plugin start this process, ask in the ~Toolkit channel on the community server. The PM, or somone else from the integrations team will help you start the process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Getting your plugin onto our community server https://community.mattermost.com is a valuable source of feedback. Whether you are a [Core Committer](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation/blob/dae9ecb3b445111479acbaba9f382e9eb263bc52/contribute/getting-started/core-committers) or anyone from the community, we want you to get feedback to improve your plugin. However we must ensure that our community server remains stable for everyone. This document outlines the process of getting your plugin onto the community server. In the future, some of these steps will be required to get your plugin into the integrations marketplace (TBD). When you are ready to have your plugin start this process, ask in the ~Toolkit channel on the community server. The PM, or somone else from the integrations team will help you start the process.
```
